---
layout: post
title: Weeknotes 1
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">23 March 2014<p>

Those following along closely will be aware that I started working at the
Government Digital Service a little over a month ago.  My current task is to
improve the site search on [GOV.UK](http://www.gov.uk/).  One of the great
things about working here is the openness; wherever possible, we publically
document what's going on.  A nice example of this is my colleague Jordan who
writes [regular weekly
notes](http://probablyisjordan.tumblr.com/post/80271110667/week-fifty-six)
which I found very useful reading both before and after I began.  Copying is
the best form of flattery, so I'm going to try writing such notes myself.

This week started with my first deploy of some code to production; we don't
allow people to access production machines until they've been around a while,
and I'm still learning the set-up so was being supervised by a colleague, but
it was quite exciting to deploy changes to such a high volume site.  The
changes were aimed at making sure that the documents covering the budget on
Wednesday would come up at the top of appropriate searches.

I also finished a piece of work to get a dashboard up on a screen in our office
giving an overview of how well search has been working.  It currently shows
some statistics about the outcome of searches, and automatically identifies
searches where the ranking looks poor (based on click through rates).  I'm
rather pleased to have got this done, since it will allow us to start making
substantial changes to the search on GOV.UK with some confidence that we're
improving things.

On Tuesday morning I attended a lab in Shoreditch to observe some user research
targeted at Environment Agency content.  It was fascinating to get some direct
feedback on some changes we're planning to make to search, and to see ways in
which interfaces that I'd expected to work really well were completely
misunderstood by users.  It's great to be able to get this sort of feedback
before we spend lots of effort building something.

On Wednesday and Thursday I started building a new interface for our search
engine app ["rummager"](https://github.com/alphagov/rummager) to provide search
results to the frontend of the site.  We're doing this so that we can start
providing a much simpler list of results for searches, but with additional ways
suggested to refine searches further, and so that we can experiment which
changing the rankings of results without breaking the existing search frontend.

I also spent a lot of time on Wednesday rebuilding the virtual machine I
develop in on my laptop; this should normally be an easy task, but due to some
changes in the way Oracle provides downloads of the Java JDK, the script which
does this broke, causing a lot of knock-on problems; hopefully I won't have to
rebuild it again for a while.

On Friday, I attended [ScaleSummit](http://scalesummit.org/).  This was a one
day conference attended by lots of people who work on building large scale web
systems.  I attended some very interesting sessions about web analytics,
running open source projects and about elasticsearch.  I also gave a lightning
talk about the search dashboard work I've been doing which seemed to go down
well.

It's taken a little while, but our search improvement work seems to be getting
some momentum behind it.  Looking forward to keeping that going this week.
