---
layout: post
title: Weeknotes 9
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">18 May 2014<p>

This was a great week.

At the start of this week we released the new version of site search for
GOV.UK.  This gets rid of the old tabbed interface, and introduces our first
"facet" for refining searches.  There have been a few small teething troubles,
but mostly it's performed as we hoped; it's working at least as well as the old
interface, but is a much more standard search interface so we'll be able to
build on user interface patterns that people are used to.  As you'd expect,
this is just the first of many iterations, so it's important that this has laid
a nice stable foundation.  We're now watching the analytics and feedback from
users closely to determine what areas of ranking need work most urgently.

I spent my final two days on second-line support mainly working on getting a
plan for upgrading elasticsearch in place.  We have several different apps
using the same elasticsearch cluster, so any upgrade basically means doing a
lot of testing first.  On Monday, I was finally fairly confident that we'd
managed to make all the apps work with either elasticsearch 0.20 or 0.90, so we
upgraded the preview cluster to a recent 0.90 release.

Unfortunately, we couldn't easily perform the upgrade by building a new cluster
and then switching to it, because we'd have to make sure that updates during
the switchover process from all of the different apps talking to the cluster
were not lost.  We decided the likelihood of us making a mistake during that
process was just too high, so instead opted for an upgrade-with-downtime.
Fortunately, because we didn't need to upgrade the apps at the same time, we
managed to get the downtime for this to about 1 minute.

We upgraded the cluster on our staging environment on Wednesday, and after that
had worked for a day with no problems, we upgraded production first thing on
Friday. Thanks to our caching layer, searchers performing high volume searches
won't have experienced problems during the downtime, so very few people
received an error as a result.

Working on second line was a very interesting insight into how the rest of the
GOV.UK teams work, but I was glad to get back to my "home" team for the second
half of the week.

I spent the rest of the week working on making our search wrapper incorporate
data from the new [search-admin](https://github.com/alphagov/search-admin) tool
so that we can force results for certain queries.  I tried various strategies
for doing this, finally coming up with one which does all the re-ranking in
elasticsearch, but has negligible performance impact.  This tool will give us
great power to fix search issues quickly, but needs careful monitoring so that
we don't break rare searches by forcing results for popular searches to the top
of them.
