---
layout: post
title: Weeknotes 5
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">20 April 2014<p>

Last week was a bit different, because I spent the majority of it at a
conference on Information Retrieval.  This was [ECIR 2014](http://ecir2014.org)
which is a well established academic conference.  It was great to catch up with
the research that's been going on, and also with the researchers themselves:
I've been to several ECIR conferences over the years, and first met some of the
attendees when the conference was in Cambridge 14 years ago.

As ever, I've been left with a long reading list after the conference.  I
particularly like finding out about new techniques for improving systems which
don't require lots of manual tagging work, and in that vein Colin Wilkie and
Leif Azzopardi's work on a way to estimate bias in a retrieval system without
performing vast amounts of queries (and without doing any manual work) was very
interesting.  Not only that, they'd been using gov.uk as a test collection.

I'm hoping that we'll be able to distribute some of our search data, so that
experiments like these can be done without needing to hit our API.  As a bit of
preparation work for that, I've been experimenting with building a vagrant
configuration which will construct a complete working system running
[rummager](https://github.com/alphagov/rummager).  Apart from difficulties with
vagrant itself, this seems to be working nicely.

I had one day back in the office before the long weekend, and spent it catching
up with the many things that happened while I was away.  The team roles have
been redefined a bit, and the team members shuffled a bit, so starting from
Tuesday our team will be officially responsible for "Search and Browse".  I'm
looking forward to this increased focus; we should be able to start delivering
a lot pretty soon.  We've also got a couple of great developers moving over to team,
who I'm looking forward to working with more closely.
