---
layout: post
title: Think of teams as multipliers
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">14 March 2014</p>

I was recently asked by a large company to give a reference for an ex-colleague
of mine.  This consisted of them asking me to answer 10 questions.  Frankly,
I'll be surprised if they get much useful information from most such requests,
but one question jumped out at me as being a symptom of a bad way of thinking
about how teams of people work:

    "What kept her/him from being the #1 performer on your team?"

The idea that you can answer such a question is pernicious.  It implies that
you think of a team as a collection of individuals, working on separately
measurable stuff.  Indeed, if you can identify a #1 performer on the team, that
person probably isn't really working properly as part of the team, and the
overall performance of the team would be better if that individual spent more
of their efforts helping the rest of the team.  It implies that you think of a
team as something where the output is the sum of the efforts of the
individuals.

I think it's much more helpful to think of a team as a set of individuals whose
work is tightly intertwined, and whose behaviour is highly dependent on the
needs of others in the team.  A good team member is one who performs reasonably
well on the individual items they work on, but whose influence on every other
team member is to multiply their productivity by some factor.  For example, by
using their particular knowledge to help others think through problems, avoid
pitfalls, and produce better architected and documented code.  And, not least,
who raises the morale and enthusiasm of the team by making sure that everyone
gets a measure of the credit for the team's success.

A team composed of individuals sacrificing some personal productivity in return
for improving that of everyone around them is a joy to be a part of, and far
more effective than a set of individuals working alone.
