---
layout: post
title: Weeknotes 6 and 7
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">5 May 2014<p>

Two weeks worth of weeknotes today again, after a couple of very productive
weeks.  The restructure to form a "search and browse" team has been a great
success so far, with lots of progress being made and a first release of a new
search interface expected this week.  Having a team with a clear objective, and
sprint goals set such that we're all working together on the same thing has
made all the difference.

On the first day of the sprint we had a fairly tough planning meeting, but I
think the effort put into that was worth it setting aims, and making it clear
how much there was to do.  Some good work from our delivery and product
managers to cut down the scope of the sprint gave us a great deal of focus.  So
much so that by the middle of the sprint we were running out of fully planned
tasks to do and had to have a reprioritisation meeting.

Our focus has been to get a new, less cluttered, search interface for GOV.UK
implemented and deployed, and while the new interface isn't yet fully deployed
we progressed much farther than I'd hoped, and is now undergoing some user
research.  Tara has done some excellent work on updating our "healthcheck"
data, which we use to check that the ranking for searches is working well, and
as a result I was able to build on that to perform some tuning to ensure that
the large amount of detailed content from government departments wasn't
overpowering the smaller number of "mainstream" pages.

We've also developed our first "facet" to allow search results to be filtered
by organisation, and are likely to add several more facets to search result
pages in future.

I began some work to fetch information on the popularity of pages on the site
from analytics, and put that in a form suitable for use when ranking.  An
initial prototype of this improved the quality of results radically, both as
measured by the healthcheck and by inspecting some of our previously
problematic searches.  Hopefully this will get into production in the next
sprint.
